# Meeting Transcript

**[00:00:08] Sruly Taber:** The Microsoft Fabric. Crew. system supports various types of administrators. There's the main administrator called a Fabric Admin. There's a domain admin. capacity admin. And the workspace admin. Each of these systems works a little bit differently. The purpose of what we want to do here is to maybe align them a little bit more, but just for context and for reference, a little bit of information about how these things work so far. So Fabric Admin is an entry ID role. Comes directly from entry ID, you can assign it, and it's also inherited directly from the global admin role, so anybody who's a global admin is automatically also a Fabric admin. This is a Power Apps admin, it's also automatically a Fabric admin. Fabric admins can set up things at the tenant level, things like tenant settings. Tenant admin reports and anything else, admin APIs, these are all for tenant admins. Domain admins are managed through Fabric itself, so a tenant admin can create a domain and then delegate domain admin ownership to somebody else within that tenant who can then become the domain admin. Capacity admins actually come through Azure. Capacities are managed in Azure. And the user that creates the capacity in Azure is the capacity admin. The user can also add other users within Fabric, not in Azure, to have certain types of capacity admin permissions. Workspace admins are just regular RBAC rules. If I create a workspace, I can then delegate it to whoever I want within the tenant. to have the role of admin within workspace. If you have the role of admin in workspace, you are within the workspace admin. Workspace admins. are the only ones that have an explicit managed permission system. And this is what we want to discuss today. The challenge is that the tenant admin, capacity admin, domain admin don't have a real modeled permission system, so if a workspace is created, I can... add somebody as a workspace admin, or as a workspace contributor, or as a workspace viewer, and they inherit certain permissions within that workspace. When a capacity or a domain or a tenant are created, there is no way within Fabric to actually manage those permissions. Yet, I can add somebody to have certain permissions within a capacity. And yeah, I can delegate certain permissions to my domain admin, but they're super restricted. And that's something that we need to solve. Before we get into the technicalities of it and what the solution is, a little bit about the business challenge. As Fabric grew, Fabric started out as just workspaces with. items inside. Capacities and domain groups were added later. Tenant admins were a slim role just to sort of set things up. But as Power BI evolved and became Fabric, the role of the admin improved. The amount of things that need to be configured at the tenant level, at the domain level, at the workspace level, Fabric level has grown tremendously over the last few years as Fabric has evolved. And this has really put a strain on how the system is managed. Adam is today. Don't have the ability to really do what they what they need, and... This is split into two challenges. Talent number one. Is. It's not always clear. or what a tenant admin or a domain admin or a capacity admin can even do in this system. There's no place where I can sort of see the assigned permissions. Challenge, that's one challenge. Another challenge is that Domain capacity. And... Tenant admins are an all or nothing role. Like if you domain admin role, you can do everything that a domain admin can do. Same thing for a tenant admin. That's not always what I have in mind. Maybe I want some sort of vertical admin, I want you to be the security admin of this domain. I want you to be the security admin of this tenant. I want you to be the metadata maintainer. So Your job is only to do things like cataloging and updating things like descriptions and tags, but you don't really have the ability to do anything else within this capacity or domain or tenant. The third challenge is inheritance. A normal RBEC system has inheritance. If you look at Azure or almost any other system, if I assign a permission to somebody on a subscription, every resource group and therefore every resource within that can inherit that role. I can go to the subscription in Azure and assign the BLOB storage data reader role. To a user or a security group, and anybody, any of those users, or anybody in that security group who... can access any storage account, regardless of whether that storage account exists at the time when I signed it or not, because it's inherited. So anytime a storage account is added, or anytime a user is added to that security group, the association between user, resource, and permission is applied through inheritance of subscription, the resource group, to item. In Fabric, we only have that inheritance level for workspace to item. Don't have that for tenant, domain, or capacity. So I can't say that as a tenant admin, you have permission to Edit certain things on every item in the system. There's no way for me to voice that. Now, from a business perspective, is that something I want to do? I don't know. That's the point. The point is we want our customers to be able to decide what the paying Adi can do, but today they can't do that. Now, down to the next level of challenges, and this is more tech. So I already described the business challenge. The business challenges, we don't have the right granularity. It's not very obvious to see what you have, and there's no way to voice the idea of a permission on item which is inherited from a container above it, like a domain, a capacity, or a tenant. But now for the technical perspective of this. Same problem, just described from a technical perspective. RBEC roles are a modeled concept generally in most systems. So you have this idea of an activity, and when an activity happens, you map that activity to a permission that's required. Those permissions are grouped into roles, and those roles are assigned to users or groups. often with inheritance. But what is most important where it all starts is that there is this concept of an abstraction between the decision and what's going on. The code just says, listen, do why you don't have permission to do this. And there's some sort of system which check if the current principal has permission to do that. In all of the administrative roles I mentioned, besides workspace admin, which is modeled correctly, all the other roles that are domain, capacity, and tenant, there is no concept like that. Literally, we have 10s, if not hundreds of places throughout the code where there is a hard-coded if. If the user is a tenant admin, allow this operation. If the user is a domain admin. Allow this operation if user the capacity admin. There's no modeling whatsoever. That's what leads us to sounds where A, we don't know what's going on and B, there's no granularity. There's no granularity and we don't know what's going on because it's a model at all. Literally hard-coded. everywhere throughout the system. What we need to solve is to model that. We need to model permissions for domains, capacities, and tenants. Now, the modeling needs to be split into two parts. Part number one: which roles and permissions, permissions are rolled up into roles. Can the admin of that container on the container itself? Meaning if you're a tenant admin, what can we do to the tenant? Can you configure settings on the tenant? Can you configure network security on the tenant? Can you change some of the graphics or the names of the tenant or whatever? Permissions on the tenant object itself. Same thing with capacity. What can you do on the capacity? Can you view capacity metrics? Can you edit capacity throttling? Can you add other users to the capacity? User roles on the capacity. The second group, and obviously we have the same thing for domains. The second group of permissions are the permissions we started inherited. from those higher level containers to the items below. For example, if you are a capacity admin, can you actually see the data in that capacity? Probably our customers don't want that, but again, we might want to allow their customers to do that. But even if you can't see the data, can you see the fact that the data exists? Can you list the items? Can you list the workspaces? Can you edit tags? Can you change descriptions, et cetera? So every single permission that exists on an item today should be assignable to an admin role as well. So when I say you're a tenant admin, within that role, it tells you what you can go to the tenant. It tells you what you can do on all the objects were beneath the tenant, which happen to include capacity, domain, workspace, and item. So I can inherit things from tenant admin to those levels. From a capacity admin, then I can't have no effect on tenant, which is above me, but I can assign roles on the capacity itself, as well as permissions that I would then inherit from the capacity and allow me to make changes to the workplace or the items. For example, what I, in my personal understanding, would assume, I would assume that the default admin of a capacity can A, change anything on the capacity bucket itself, anything that's due with configuration or throttling or monitoring view. or edit on the capacity itself. but also has limited viewer permission on every single item underneath. So I know if I'm a capacity admin, A, I can see the full list of workspaces in my capacity, and B, I can also see the items in my capacity. Now, why do I need this? Well, it's important for me to be able to track usage if I'm a capacity admin. I probably want to know Things like who's using my capacity the most, how much are they utilizing it? If I can't see the items, then what do I have to know? There's something utilizing my capacity, but I don't know what that item is. I don't know who owns it. I don't know where it resides. I can't solve anything. So part of my permission probably requires me to be able to see that. On the other hand, I don't need to be able to see the data. Data is probably private, so maybe I don't want to do that. Similar idea for. Domain admin. As a domain admin, I want to maybe govern my domain. I'm not so worried about how much it costs, but I'm worried about who has permission and how network security is set up or whatever my perimeter setup is or my boundaries or my security. So do I need to see the data inside? Probably not, but I want by default to probably have permissions that allows me to maybe edit it. Meditator. And then maybe I even want to create entire vertical admin roles, which aren't a tenant admin, capacity admin, or a domain admin anymore. I want a new role called security admin. And security admins automatically inherit permissions, or automatically assigned, sorry, they don't inherit, but they're automatically assigned permissions as a security admin on items. at all levels, but only allow them to configure security. So I can assign user permissions, network security, CMK, Policies, settings, configurations at any level, because I'm the security admin. I can't see the data. I can't edit the data. But I can change. settings, you know, for network security, for example. In this case, maybe it doesn't even make sense for me to see that the data items exist. Maybe I only can only see the list of workspaces. As a security admin, I can set settings and configurations that are related to security on the workspaces, but the items themselves, since most items inherit their workplace permissions, maybe it doesn't matter. You see that again. What is a security admin? We can allow our customers to define that if we create a granular enough system. So to reiterate, this is sort of the whole, the business. The challenge we have right now is that there is not a fully functioning enterprise ready. permission model, RBAC permission model system for admins in Microsoft Fabric. The reason this exists is because everything is hard-coded. It is the domain admin, if it's capacity admin, if it's tenant admin, there's no modeling around it. The solution that we need is some sort of RBAC modeling system that allows us to say event permission role and then assign that role to those admins. The types of permissions which reside in these new admin roles are split into two groups. Group number one is what they can do on the container itself, container being the tenant or the capacity or the domain. And #2 is what they inherit in the items which reside within these containers. Since all these container items, objects contain workspaces and items inside of them, what can I do on those items? Again, one last example, if I'm the tenant admin, I can probably change any configuration or setting On the tenant, on the capacity, or on the domain. However, I probably can't change things that are item level because that's not my job. If I'm the security admin, maybe I can't even see items, but I can configure security perimeters in every object in the domain.
