# Meeting Transcript

**[00:00:07] Sruly Taber:** I'm going to begin discussing the topic of compliance tracking for Microsoft Fabric. Microsoft Fabric already has various administrative and governance capabilities. So admins can configure permissions, settings, for adding support for policies. But what we don't currently have is the concept of compliance. There's no location within Fabric where I can define what is compliant. What does that even mean? How do I view what's compliant? How do I react or make decisions based on something being compliant? I'll give an example. Perhaps I want to say that a workspace, in order for it to be compliant for external data sharing, must have various network security capabilities enabled. And only if network security capabilities are enabled is it registered as compliant for external data sharing. And then I can take that compliance score of compliance. metric and then use that as a decision point to decide whether I can or can't enable external data sharing, maybe using something like the Microsoft Policy Platform. So when I say compliance, I just mean a set of rules that a tenant admin can configure. So a set of rules that the owner of a system, not necessarily maybe a tenant admin, maybe also other admins, domain admins, capacity admins, but a set of rules where I can define what compliance means to me. Based on that, there can't be a single set of rules of what compliance means because tenants can be large and compliance for sharing might be different. then compliance for legal, compliance for HR, compliance for medical. So for a large organization, we might have different compliance standards. in the future. that compliance standards, the compliance packs, can even be something that can be installed via library or through integrations, but that's probably for something further down the road. So for now, what we're thinking mostly is as an administrator of a tenant at 1st and then perhaps in the future, a domain or a capacity, I can define a set of rules. tell me whether something is compliant. Once I have those in place, we can continuously evaluate them, set that score somewhere, and then based on the result of that score, can A, show some sort of metric, health metrics somewhere, but then B, also make further downstream decisions. For example, so and so can't access data because it's an workspace that isn't compliant. So that's sort of the overview. I think the business value is quite obvious. Tenant admins want to know in large tenants with lots of data moving all over the place, especially with data being consumed by AI and stuff. We want to know that the data is being stored, persisted, computed over, et cetera, in a compliant manner. Our competitors are already doing this. We look at certain things like Office. Office is, of course, not a competitor, Microsoft. Office is a quite complex compliance center. And some of our competitors have similar. Probably need to do a little bit more research about what our competitors have to offer. But now let's start discussing some basic requirements, so... I don't know exactly where we kicked this off, where it shows up in the UI and stuff. So let's put that aside for a minute. But putting UI aside, there's a location somewhere that the admin can access, again, possibly in scope. So probably a tenant admin or a domain admin or a capacity admin. can access this within their specific scope. I don't think it makes sense to allow workspace admins to define compliance because the whole idea is that workspace must be compliant. That is the target of the compliance Policies being defined by other people. So somewhere in the system, there's a base location. where compliance is defined, I create a new something. Again, I don't want to define the full user experience more. I think it's more of. Uhh... a high-level concept or a high-level idea. rather than a specific user flow. But somewhere along the line there, I create some sort of compliance definition, a compliance pack, a compliance rule set, a compliance definition. I don't know what the best term is. Again, maybe we just look online and see what other companies or other organizations call this. But the idea of what this compliance pack is It's a collection of compliance rules that if all these rules are validated, then the items that are being checked by these rules are marked off as compliant. within this compliance pack, which probably has things like a name, a description, and some sort of documentation link, perhaps, because if you end up violating this compliance, you're going to want to understand what to do about it. What does this even mean? It's hard to understand these things. There's probably some sort of human readable documentation, either pointers or literally descriptions built in. But beyond that, the compliance pack doesn't necessarily do much. Let's say we have something called HIPAA compliance, or maybe we have something called GDPR compliance, or maybe we have something called confidential data compliance, or HR compliance, or whatever it is we want to call. In there, you have a set of rules. These rules evaluate. the static configuration of workspaces and or items, so very important. We can have compliance at a full workspace level, which is probably what we're going to want most for default. But we can also drill the compliance all the way down to an item level. And then the compliance rules can be things like, this workspace is only compliant. If OneLake diagnostic is enabled, that could be a rule. This workspace is only compliant if every single item within the workspace has a sensitivity label. This workspace is only compliant if every single item within this workspace has at least three tags. is only compliant if CMK is enabled with maybe specific configuration of that. So we can also drill down further, right? This workspace is still compliant if every item in here has three tags. Two of those tags must be these specific tags, right? Things like that. So it's not just about whether they have. have something enabled, it could also be drilling down into the configuration. This workspace is only compliant if it has maximum 10 different users with permissions on it. This workspace is only compliant if it doesn't have any users which are in such and such a group to have access to it. That could also be a compliant, right, with the negative type of policy. They do, they don't, and imagine basically the ability to define logical statements with. ifs and ors and nots over basically any attribute. related to that workspace. So we have the workspace and the items inside the workspace. We have the attributes of the workspace, like the name, the description, the users who have access, the roles. We have the items inside. We have their configuration as well, their names and descriptions and users that have permission, etc. And then, based on that, we can define this policy set. So, back to the beginning, just to reiterate. There is this concept of some sort of policy set or some sort of compliance grouping that contains rules. Each and every one of those rules can be evaluated on a workspace or items within that workspace. Based on that configuration, you get back a score. Um... I don't have any examples in mind right now where that score needs to be anything besides I guess on or off, so worth like, you know, zero or one binary evaluated or not. Perhaps, and maybe you can do some research for this, perhaps we could see if there's any ideas where there's some sort of scoring where it's, you know, even for a specific rule, it's still 70% compliant. But then, once, let's say I have 10 rules and seven of them are evaluated, then... my workspace isn't entirely not compliant. It's not red, but it's not green either. So we need to pick something in between, some sort of yellow or orange, and it's marked off as partially compliant. So if I have four out of seven compliance, so you know I show that something in the UI, four out of seven rules, X percent, whatever, right? If I have 10, Six rules are available out of 10, 60% compliant, or six out of 10. I don't know if it makes sense in percentage-wise. Maybe it's just a score out of compliance. So, that's basically the idea of a complaint set. Then later I can activate those or whatever, have them triggered and evaluate the compliance sets over given workspaces or items. I don't have to limit myself to one. So I can have a compliance set for confidential data and another compliance set for HIPAA. And if there's confidential medical data, I'll apply both of them to the same workspace. That can be done separately. So again, the idea I define the rules of what compliance means literally definition of compliance, but then somewhere else I can find how do we evaluate them. Then we have a system that theoretically continuously processes these things, probably not really continuous, probably that probably wouldn't really make sense from a performance perspective. But in theory, we have something which periodically takes those rule sets, evaluates them against the workspaces which are supposed to be evaluated against, and saves that score somewhere. Now, the score isn't just the latest score. In the persistence of the score, we also need to make sure to save the historical score. So we can say, you know, yesterday you had six out of seven compliance. Today you only have five out of seven compliance. So compliance went down. And then tomorrow we can say, whoopee, yay, hey, yay, yay, celebrate. We have seven out of seven of compliance. So we definitely need to be able to see all of that. an historical trend. I don't know if we necessarily need to see this for every single day, every single hour, forever. Probably some sort of retention over that. But we do want to be able to see, at least in the short term, when compliance changes. Now, where and how is this evaluated? There's multiple options. Option number one is this is evaluated directly within the Fabric platform layer. So similar to the way we evaluate permissions, users and things, we have logic that tracks as items change, as permissions change, as metadata changes, and we decide to trigger these evaluations based on that. That's one option. Another option is to do it on an analytical data layer. We're already working on building an external governance data link, which exports all of the audit events and all of the static metadata from the customer into a Fabric data link. Uh... And that should be in relatively near real time. So maybe not within minutes, maybe within 10, 15 minutes from when something changes. And that's probably good enough for compliance. Compliance usually doesn't trigger immediately anyway. It's not permission access, it's right, it's compliance. So We could evaluate directly in the back end, we could evaluate over this data lake where we export the data. The benefit of evaluating it over in the back end is... that it could probably be a little more immediate. It's maybe more baked in. Perhaps we can utilize things like the policy engine to do that. Uh... etc. The benefit of doing the customer data is, or in the data lake, is that it makes the evaluation way more flexible. We can use a big data platform to evaluate. We're not writing C# code to do this. We're writing analytical code. We can use AI to evaluate compliance. We can use Um... Obviously, any sort of analytical code, notebooks, Python, et cetera. We can also allow customers to write their own custom code. And that's something we obviously aren't going to do in the back end. If we're running our own code, we're not going to allow the customers to inject code. That's dangerous. But if we run it as a customer tenant, the customer can write their own notebooks or their own functions or their own AI to evaluate compliance. and then contribute those scores back to the system. So let's say we have a compliance rule that has to do with how many users have permission. A customer can have a custom rule which actually goes to their HR and verifies that the users who have permission have gone through some sort of training. That's not a piece of information that we at Fabric have, but a customer can write their own code in their own notebook, go to their own HR backend, track that only customers who've gone through some sort of security training or privacy training or confidentiality or have signed NDAs or whatever can have access to this. And if they don't, it's not compliant. We can't do that in our backend. That's the benefit of putting it in the customer's backend. Some of the downsides of putting in the customer side, sorry, not really the back end, but putting in the... Of course. Fabric tip, but having them do it themselves, the downsides are that. Customer will pay for it. And that could also maybe be an upside for us. Maybe we want to charge customers for this, but maybe we want to claim it should be free. So it really depends on our business decision. If we want it to be free for customers, or at least the basic capabilities to be free for customers, and we put it in the customer's tenant, that's going to make it more difficult because everything that runs in the customer's tenant runs on a capacity. capacity. So that's sort of the trade-off. Okay, so just one more time from the top. Motivation, we want to be able to say what is or isn't compliant. The reason we want to be able to do this is to A, just show health for admins. So it'll say workspace A is compliant, workspace B isn't. And B, to be able to make decisions based on that. Since workspace B isn't compliant, Therefore, these users can't access it, or maybe we just shut it down entirely. Yeah. How do we do that? There's some place somewhere in the system where we can define what compliance looks like, the shape and the name and what it looks like. So we give it a name, description, and define those business rules of what compliance looks like. Those are then connected to specific workspaces or items and evaluated periodically based on changes in the data, either in the back end or in the customer's tenant, based on the export of data into their own OneLink locations. And either way, regardless of where it's evaluated, the results of that data can be fed back in to other business decisions, even running within Fabric, like the policy engine.
